Functional organization of the ventromedial cortex 

The organizaton of function within the ventromedial cortex has been greatly debated in part due to the region’s involvement in a semingly wide array of tasks and processes. [List some examples] Several attempts have been made to identify functionally seperable units within vmPFC using resting state functional connectivity, but results from this area are limited in their interpretability because resting state fMRI does not directly provide insights into the function of the brain. Others have used meta-analytic approches to identify groups of processes that separate different subregions of vmPFC; for example, Roy et al., argued that a more ventral portion of mPFC does ___ while a more dorsal region is involved with generation of affective meaning. While these attemps made progress in synthesizing the critical boundaries of function in the vmPFC, most of these attempts have been strongly influenced by a priori assumptions of the likely functions to be involved. Given that the mPFC is assumed to be involved in a wide range of functions, its possible that restricing meta-analysis to hypothesized functions may limit discoveries that may be made. Moreover, many assertions about vmPFCs diversity of function are made without evidence, and it is crucial to empirically demonstrate this fact, and use it to describe the role of the subcomponents of vmPFC. Finally, it is likely to some of the differences between subcomponents of mPFC will be subtle, these subtle differences may be glossed over when we only look at the functions that most heavily load onto each subregion. Thus, it is important to specifically contrast the function of the derived subregions in order to better charachterize the subtle differences between these regions. 

In the present paper, we side step these issues by using a data-driven methods on Neurosynth, a diverse database of over 10,000 fMRI studies, to determine a set of functionally seperably units within vmPFC. Next, we used a multivariate predictive algorithm to determine which functions best predict activity within each sub regions, and determined the diversity of function within each parcel by testing how many functions were necessary to charachterize activity with them. Finally, we used a novel method for identifying the functions that best predict differential activity between regions in vmPFC in order to charachterize with function differentiate these subcomponents.

Methods


Results
	Clustering voxels based on function into 30 regions across the brain resulted in 6 clusters that contained voxels on the surface of the medial prefrontal cortex (Figure 1). Within the medial prefrontal cortex, the resulting clusters were composed of contigous voxels that did not bleed into neighboring clusters, despite that no spatial constraints were included in the clustering algorithm. However, many of these clusters also included voxels outside of the mPFC, suggesting they shared similar functional profiles with spatially distal regions of the brain. 
	
	The most posterior cluster was positioned in the supplementary motor area (SMA), and also included voxels in the bilateral postcentral gyrus. The next cluster, pre-SMA, was positioned immediately anterior to SMA and included voxels in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Both the SMA and pre-SMA did not include any voxels in the cingulate cortex. The next two clusters, positioned inferior to the pre-SMA, encompased much of the mid cingulate cortex. These two midcingulate clusters also included similar voxels outside of the medial prefrontal cortex; the posterior midcingulate (PMC) included voxels in posteior insula, going as far posterior as the parietal operculum whereas the anteior midcingulate (AMC), included more anterior aspects of the insula. Further anterior and ventral there were two large clusters. The more posterior of the two (ACC/OFC) included almost the entire anterior cingulate cortex, including subgenual aspects, much of the orbital surface of the orbitafrontal cortrex, and extended ventrally into the temporal cortices, including parts of the parahippocampal gyrus. The most anterior mPFC (aMPFC) cluster extended into frontal pole, but  stopped short of including the entire region, and included voxels of the posterior cingulate cortex, consistent with previous observations the the MPFC and PCC are tightly linked members of the default network.  However, few other regions of the default network, such as the hippocampus, clustered together with medial prefrontal regions, suggesting that they may be subcomponents that play different roles in a larger network.

Regions in the ventromedial preforntal cortex varied subtantially in which cognitve functions best predicted their activity (Figure 2). SMA activity, unsurprsingly, was strongly predicted by motor related processes (“motor”, “movements”), and only weakly prediced by other functions. Of these remaining functions, SMA was also weakly predicted by pain processes and stimulation and sensory proceses (“stimulation”, 	“somatosensory”, “tms”). 

In contrast, activity pre-SMA is only weakly predcited by motor processes and is strongly predicted by “cognitive” processes such as executive function and language processes, such as reading and speech.  Despite being slightly predicted by motor processing, pre-SMA was anti predicted by a topic about stimulation and somatosensory. Similarly to SMA, pre-SMA was also antipredicted by emotional and social processes (e.g. “emotional”, “negative”; “fear” “anxiety”). pre-SMA was also the MPFC region whos activity was most negatively predicted by a default network related topic. In addition, both SMA and pre-SMA were the only MPFC regions whos activity was negatively predicted by emotional processes. 

The two midcingulate clusters showed limited commonalities in their functional patterns. Activity in both was strongly predicted by painful stimulation, consitent with mPFC and insula’s central role in integrating sensory information. However, the similarities largely ended there. Posterior MCC activity was predicted by motor processes and non-painful stimulation, whereas activity in anteror MCC was actually negatively predicted by both of those processes. Moreover, activity in anterior MCC was predicted by “cognitive” processes whereas posterior MCC wasn’t; both reading and executive function processes predicted activity in anterior MCC, but not in posterior MCC. These differences suggest anterior MCC being involved in higher level processes whereas posterior MCC is more involved in the integration of sensations and movements. 

The two ventromedial prefrontal clusters also showed somewhat similar patterns. Activity in both regions was weakly predicted by emotional processes and negativelly predicted by somatosensory and motoric processes. However, only activity in aMPFC was predicted by a default network network topic, social processes and episodic imagery whereas ACC/OFC wasn’t. Strikingly, ACC/OFC was not strongly predicted by any one process, suggesting this region may be involved in a wide variety of processes. 

[Distance analysis?
Distance goes w/ spatial distance except midcingulate / pre-sma

In addition to determing which functions best predicted activity in each region, we determined how well activity across regions of the mPFC could be predicted by the semantics in neuroimaging studies. In other words, across regions of mPFC, how well does our existing cognitive ontology allow us to predict if a region will activate? Activity in regions of mPFC more involved in motor functions, such as pMCC and SMA, was best explained by cognitive semantics; in fact, activity in SMA was the best explained across the entire brain. Despite its close spatial proximity, activity in pre-SMA/DLPFC was the most poorly explained by cognitive semantics, followed by activity in ACC/OFC. This likely reflects how semantically accesible the function of these regions is. In particular, pre-SMA/DLPFC are thought to be involved in instantating high-level goals and exerting top-down control; this abstract process may be more difficult to explain using our existing ontology of cognitive processes as it is less grounded in specific tasks and elemental processes in contrast to SMA. The activity in the remaing MPFC regions was explained at average levels.

Next, we quantified the heterogeneity of function among MPFC regions in order to determine if MPFC regions are involved in a diverse range of cognitive functions. We estimated how well each region's activity could be predicted using a smaller set of functions, starting with only 1 topic and sequentially adding functions until we had a complete model using 60 topics. We then measured how many features were required to reach near maximum levels of predictive accuracy for each region; regions that required ,more cognitive functions to sucessfully predict their activity were presumably more heterogenous in function. We quantified the steepness of this curve by measuring the area under the curve of these hetereogeneity functions; regions with greater areas reached near maximum performance with fewer features. 

Regions in MPFC vary widely in functional heterogeneity. For example, SMA showed among the lowest heterogenity of function across the whole brain; a single cognitive topic, motoric function, was reponsible for explaining 87% of the possible variance in that region. The neighboring pMCC was also very homogenous; two topics, motoric function and pain, explained over 75% of the explainable activty in that region. More surprsingly, aMPFC showed relatively average heteogeneity, despite claims that this region is "very diverse". In contrast, the remaining MPFC regions required complex models to predict their activity accurately. In fact, aMCC showed the highest heterogeneity across the entire brain, and pre-SMA and ACC/OFC were in the top ___ percentile of the brain. 

[Compare to coactivation?]
	
Discussion


[Putting voxels into functional groups prevents regions from looking diverse because they are two regions]